Toronto ordinals are discrete (#1802)
pi-base/data: theorems/T000907.md

---
uid: T000907
if:
  and:
  - P000190: true
  - P000219: true
then:
  P000052: true
---

If $X$ is empty, this holds trivially. Otherwise, take $S=\{0\} \cup \{\beta + 1 : \beta +1 < X\} \subseteq X$ to be the set of $0$ with all successor ordinals less than $X$. Every point in $S$ is isolated, hence $S$ is discrete. 
For finite $X$ we have that $S=X$ so $X$ is discrete. 

> For infinite $X$, the map $\beta \mapsto \beta+1$ is an injection into $S$, hence $|S|=|X|$ and by Toronto, $X$ is discrete as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finite ordinal spaces are discrete.
So assume $X$ is an infinite ordinal $\alpha$.
Let $S=\{\beta + 1 : \beta +1 < \alpha\} \subseteq X$ be the set of successor ordinals less than $\alpha$.
Every point in $S$ is isolated, hence $S$ is discrete.
The map $\beta \mapsto \beta+1$ is an injection into $S$, hence $|S|=|X|$ and by Toronto, $X$ is discrete as well.
```
(check in preview mode)

Author: Looks good, thanks! Wasn't sure if i needed to argue that finite ordinal spaces are discrete, hence the verbosity.
